hello this is chef john from food wishes
comm with macaroni salad that's right I
cannot believe this many summers have
come and gone and I have not shared my
take on this iconic summer side dish I
mean I shudder to think what you've been
using instead no offense so I apologize
for the delay but hopefully after you
see and taste how awesome this comes out
all will be forgiven
so let's go ahead and get started with
the dressing and one of the keys to a
great macaroni salad is to do the
dressing first for reasons I'll explain
in a second so we're gonna start with
some mayonnaise and of course we're
gonna use real full fat mayonnaise and
to the mayonnaise we'll add a couple
spoons of Dijon mustard to be honest
yellow mustard seems to be more
traditional but I really do like the
Dijon better here so a little bit of
mustard and then we're also going to
need some vinegar and for this I'm
recommending plain white distilled
vinegar and it's not like you're gonna
wreck this using a different vinegar but
really this is just in here for the
acidity and I think we want something
that has a neutral flavor and then we'll
need to season this up a little bit with
a shake of cayenne pepper as well as
some freshly ground black pepper and of
course some salt and we'll take a whisk
and we'll mix that up and that is
basically the base of the dressing for
this macaroni salad except for one key
crucial and controversial ingredient
sugar so while it is true that your
classic American deli style macaroni
salad does use sort of a sweet dressing
I find that the most popular recipes out
there call for way way too much like a
half a cup or two-thirds of a cup of
sugar so I'm only gonna call for one or
two tablespoons which I think provides
plenty of sweetness especially since
we're gonna add lots of sweet vegetables
and once that's all mixed together the
liquid portion of our dressing is done
and we have to move on to the solids
also known as our diced veggies so we'll
start with a whole bunch of finely diced
celery as well as some grated carrot and
then we want a little bit of onion in
this and I'm gonna use the white and
light green parts of some scallions but
just regular onion will work fine and
then for color sweetness and a little
bitterness we're definitely gonna do
some pepper and I'm going to use several
kinds I'm gonna go with some red bell
pepper and then also some green pepper
in the form of poblano and jalapeno and
then we'll take a spatula and we'll mix
this up and I really think it's
important we do this step before we cook
our pasta okay because these
troubles are almost gonna get like a
quick pickling in this dressing ok the
salt the sugar the acid is gonna pull
liquid out of those vegetables it's
gonna sort of firm up and crisp up the
texture and I really do think it makes a
little bit of a difference and besides
no one can really prove otherwise
and once that's mixed we'll just pop
that in the fridge while we prepare our
macaroni and I'm just gonna leave that
spatula right in there because we are
gonna use that to mix the salad up so
we'll pop that in the fridge and move on
to our elbow macaroni so what we have
here is one pound of elbow macaroni
that's about 4 cups and we are gonna
cook this in some generously salted
boiling water and I said cook not under
cook we're gonna cook this all the way
just like as if we were gonna eat this
hot I don't have any idea who came up
with the notion that you're supposed to
under cook pasta for a salad but it's
just not true
unless you want a horrible gummy texture
macaroni salad I mean who knows maybe
you do but assuming you want an
enjoyable texture I recommend cooking at
the full time at which point we're gonna
drain that very very well so let's pour
that into a colander to let it drain and
do not under any circumstances rinse
this pasta for this particular salad
that is the biggest mistake you could
make so don't do it just let this sit
and drain for about five minutes and
every so often I want you to give it the
old shake of sheikha which is gonna help
knock off some of that water and once
we're convinced our macaroni is very
very well drained we will transfer that
into a large mixing bowl and proceed
with probably the most important step of
this whole process the tossing and
cooling of the macaroni what we'll do is
we'll take our spatula from the dressing
and we'll use that to toss this macaroni
occasionally until it cools down to just
about room temp and while we're using
the spatula from the dressing we're
definitely not gonna add any dressing
until this has cooled down all right if
you had a mayonnaise-based dressing too
hot macaroni which you'll end up with is
a very greasy macaroni salad and what's
gonna happen here is you're tossing and
cooling a very fine layer of starch is
going to form on each one of those
pieces of macaroni and that thin layer
starch has been proven to more
effectively grab on and hold on to that
mayonnaise-based dressing it's true
they've done studies where the Mayo
Clinic
but anyway like I said we want to cool
that down to about room temperature and
if everything's gone according to plan
those pieces of macaroni should just be
tacky enough to stick to your hand so
that's perfect right there and yes I
will stop touching the macaroni now and
at this point finally we can go ahead
and add our dressing and as you're
mixing this if you're thinking man this
is way too much dressing seems kind of
wet don't worry because you prepped your
macaroni properly by the time this is
ready to serve it's going to be fully
and perfectly absorbed trust me and by
the way we're not going to taste it at
this point okay we don't wanna season
this until that macaroni has fully
absorbed the dressing and it's at the
temperature we're gonna serve it so what
we'll do is we'll wrap it up and we'll
pop it in the fridge for at least four
hours but overnight is best which is how
long I left mine in the fridge and then
the next day when we pull it out it
should look something like this and as
predicted all our dressing has been
perfectly absorbed and what I like to do
at this point is take the spatula and
give it a nice mix so we can really see
what we have and while you can
definitely serve it like this I
generally like to freshen it up a little
bit with another small spoon of
mayonnaise in just a little touch of
cold water just like a tablespoon or two
just drizzle it in and we'll give that a
mix and while that's really not gonna
significantly change the characteristics
of the salad it is like I said gonna
give it a little bit of a fresher look
so you decide you are the Tony Tony Tony
of your macaroni so that kind of stuffs
up to you and then once our salad has
been tossed and freshened up the last
and most important step we have to taste
for seasoning so I gave mine a taste and
it was perfect and at that point we'll
transfer it to some kind of serving
container and by the way because this
salad is so naturally beautiful and
fresh looking it does not need any
garnish unless of course you want people
to share it on social media which in
that case you better top it with some
green onions
you think it was gonna pin this with no
garnish on top I don't think so so I did
a little green onion for the final touch
and that's it my take on the classic
all-american macaroni salad is done and
I realize taste is subjective but for me
this is just the epitome of the classic
American macaroni salad slightly but not
too sweet
with just the right level of acidity and
a very generous amount of vegetables as
well as a beautiful silky creamy
field because we didn't dress that
macaroni hot but anyway that's it my
version of the classic American macaroni
salad and of course this is gonna pair
beautifully with anything you barbecue
grill or smoked this summer I probably
should have done that in a different
order but anyway the point is I really
hope you give this a try soon so head
over to food wishes comm for all the
ingredient amounts and more info as
usual and as always enjoy
[Music]